Hey in this video, we're gonna learn
how to configure Spring with Java annotations.
So what exactly are Java annotations?
Well all they are, they're simply special labels
or markers that are added to Java classes
and they actually give you meta-data about the class.
So like I have here in this photo of a shoebox,
we have meta-data or a label on this shoebox.
So we have the actual size of shoe, the style of shoe,
the model number, and so on.
So that's meta-data about this shoe.
So, again, Java annotations are simply
meta-data about a class.
So we can actually have annotations that are processed
at compile time or at run-time,
and we'll see both examples in this video.
So we've actually seem some annotations already.
So when we created that TrackCoach,
we had an annotation called at override.
So what this annotation does is it basically tells
the compiler, hey, we're gonna implement a given interface,
or extend a class, and we're gonna override the method.
So when you give that annotation of at override,
you're basically telling the compiler,
hey, we're compliant, we're gonna override the method
exactly as listed in the interface or the parent class.
Now, what happens at compilation time
is that the compiler will check your class
and make sure that you really are overriding the method.
So they will verify or perform an audit check on your class.
As long as you override it exactly as advertised,
then everything works out just fine.
However, if there are any problems,
then the compiler will say, hey you're not really
overriding the method as you stated that you were,
and it'll actually give you a compilation error.
Alright?
So again, at override's an annotation
that's actually processed at compilation time,
and we've seen this already in our coding examples so far.
Alright, so now, why would you wanna use
spring configuration with annotations?
Well, if you were doing normal XML configuration,
it can be very verbose for very large projects.
Imagine a scenario where you had a spring project
and you had 30 beans or maybe 100 beans,
you'd have to list each one of those in your
XML config file, and that would just take a lot of time
and be very verbose, or a lot of work.
Instead what you can do is you can actually
configure your Spring beans with annotations.
So the annotations will basically
allow you to minimize the XML configuration.
Again, annotations are like meta-data for your class,
just like the photo here.
We basically have boxes or moving boxes
and then we annotate those boxes
or we basically write the name of the destination
of those boxes on the actual box itself.
So a similar thing with annotations,
we'll add an annotation to a given class
and then Spring can use that for configuring the system.
Alright, so let's kind of look at the background here
and see how this works.
Well basically once you add an annotation to a class,
then Spring will actually scan
your Java classes for those annotations.
When it finds a class that has a special
Spring annotation on it, it'll automatically
register that bean with the Spring container.
So instead of doing everything long hand
via XML config file, Spring will just scan and say,
oh that's a Spring bean, let me grab that bean
and let me register it with the Spring container.
So Spring will kinda help you out here
and do a lot of work for you in the background
by scanning your classes.
Alright, so let's go ahead and look at the
development process for using annotations with Spring.
And again, I love doing things step by step.
So then the first step is that we're gonna enable
component scanning in our Spring configuration file.
And then in step two, we're gonna add
the component annotation to our Java class.
And finally in step three,
we're gonna retrieve the bean from the Spring container.
And we'll go through this
in the following slides step by step.
Alright, so step one,
enable component scanning in the Spring config file.
So our Spring config file,
well that should be really simple now.
So instead of listing out all the beans, we can remove
all of that stuff and simply have one entry here.
We'll simply say, context component scan,
and you give it the base package that you want it to scan.
And so Spring will actually go through and scan all classes
in this package and all subpackages and it'll identify
the components that have that annotation on it and it'll
automatically register them with the Spring container.
That happens in the background for you automatically.
So then with step two, we need to add
the component annotation to our Java class.
So this is an annotation, we're gonna tell Spring,
hey when you scan, this class is a special Spring bean,
so I'd like for you to register it.
So here, we make use of the at component annotation.
And here, this is for our tennis coach,
and we simply give the actual bean ID that we wanted to use.
So at component, that Silly Coach,
that'll actually register this tennis coach as a Spring bean
and it'll have the bean ID of that Silly Coach.
And again, the bean ID can be anything.
You can make it whatever you like,
I'm just keeping it silly here in this example.
So that's it.
So Spring will scan,
it'll find this at component annotation,
automatically register it with that given bean ID.
And this is really, really cool, I like this.
And then finally step three,
retrieving the bean from the Spring container.
And this is nothing really new, same coding as before,
you simply use your Spring context, you say,
context dot get bean, and you simply give the bean ID.
So in the previous slide here
I had the bean ID of that Silly Coach.
You simply give that bean ID
and it'll return back a coach implementation.
And that's it really, that's pretty much all you have to do.
So the key here is that you didn't have to list out
all of the beans in the Spring config file.
All you had to do was simply add the appropriate
component annotation to your Spring beans
and they're automatically registered
thanks to that component scanning
and thanks to Java annotations.
So this is good stuff here.
Now in the following videos we're gonna move into eclipse,
we're gonna get our hands dirty,
and we'll set up a project, we'll start writing code,
and we'll do all of this from scratch,
and we'll do it all step by step.
So see you in the next video.